Updates on instructions to setup pull through cache (#4906)
circleci/circleci-docs: jekyll/_cci2/docker-hub-pull-through-mirror.adoc

Alternatively, you can set up a Docker Hub pull through registry mirror pre-configured with Docker Hub account credentials. Using a pull through registry mirror is potentially simpler than making many build config modifications. It may also bring additional performance improvements since network roundtrips to Docker Hub are reduced.

These setup instructions are divided into three parts: Setting up a pull through cache registry, configuring Nomad clients to use the registry as a mirror, and configuring VM Service to use the registry as a mirror in machine executors and remote Docker jobs.

> One clarification here: We will not configure the Services box to use the mirror. The Services box does not pull Docker images regularly (it pulls images only upon initial setup and upgrade processes), and most images are pulled from Replicated. Hence it has few chances to hit the rate limit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: The Services machine does not need to be configured to use the mirror. The Services machine does not pull Docker images regularly (it pulls images only upon initial setup and upgrade processes), and most images are pulled from Replicated. Hence it has few chances to hit the rate limit.
```

Reviewer: using the `NOTE:` syntax will make this paragraph stand out in an info box

> == Set up a pull through cache registry

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Set Up a Pull Through Cache Registry
```

> In this phase we setup a pull through cache registry, which works as a mirror and reverse proxy for Docker Hub. This section introduces two types of pull through cache registry: The elementary and easier-to-setup one using HTTP, and the securer one using HTTPS. Either of them is functional for most cases, whereas you will need a securer one in certain cases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section covers setting up a pull through cache registry, which works as a mirror and reverse proxy for Docker Hub. Two types of pull through cache registry are presented: The elementary and easier-to-setup version using HTTP, and the more secure option using HTTPS. Either option is functional for most cases, but you might need the more secure option in certain cases.
```

> === Setup an elementary pull through cache registry (HTTP proxy for Docker Hub)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Set up an elementary pull through cache registry (HTTP proxy for Docker Hub)
```

> === Prerequisites: Set up a Docker Hub account

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Prerequisites: Set Up Docker Hub Account
```

> . *Set up a Docker Hub account* which will be used by the pull through cache registry to access Docker Hub.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. *Set up a Docker Hub account*, which will be used by the pull through cache registry to access Docker Hub.
```

+

> TIP: Setting up a paid account can be a good option to ease the rate limiting further. See also: https://www.docker.com/pricing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TIP: Setting up a paid account can be a good option to ease the rate limiting further. See also: https://www.docker.com/pricing.
```

> WARNING: We recommend to set up a dedicated account. Resources that the account has access will become accessible by all of the end users on your CircleCI Server. Especially, *if the account has private images registered on Docker Hub, those private images will become accessible by the all the users on your CircleCI Server*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
WARNING: We recommend that you set up a dedicated account. Resources that the account has access to will also become accessible by all end users of your CircleCI Server installation. This is especially important *if the account has _private_ images registered on Docker Hub*, as these private images will become accessible by all users of your CircleCI Server installation.
```

NOTE: While a free account can be used, setting up a paid account would be a good option to ease the rate limiting further: Paid accounts have an unlimitted allowance of image pulls. See also: https://www.docker.com/pricing.

> === Set up an elementary pull through cache registry (HTTP proxy for Docker Hub)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Set Up an Elementary Pull Through Cache Registry (HTTP Proxy for Docker Hub)
```

+

> Assuming that the IP address for this server is `192.0.2.1`, the URL for the registry to setup is `http://192.0.2.1`. The URL will be needed later to arm Nomad clients and the VM Service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Assuming that the IP address for this server is `192.0.2.1`, the URL for the registry to set up is `http://192.0.2.1`. The URL will be needed later to arm Nomad clients and the VM Service.
```

+
We set up this registry as an independent server (i.e. outside of CircleCI boxes) to avoid load on this cache registry affecting other CircleCI Server services.
+

> Assuming that the IP address for this server is `192.0.2.1`, the URL for the registry to set up is `http://192.0.2.1`. The URL will be needed later to arm Nomad clients and the VM Service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Assuming that the IP address for this server is `192.0.2.1`, the URL for the registry to set up is `http://192.0.2.1`. This URL will be needed later to arm Nomad clients and the VM Service.
```

+
[source,bash]
----
sudo docker run \
  -d \
  -p 80:5000 \
  --restart=always \
  --name=through-cache \
  -e REGISTRY_PROXY_REMOTEURL="https://registry-1.docker.io" \
  -e REGISTRY_PROXY_USERNAME=DOCKER_HUB_USERNAME \
  -e REGISTRY_PROXY_PASSWORD=DOCKER_HUB_ACCESS_TOKEN \
  registry
----

> . Finally, make sure that the TCP port 80 (i.e. HTTP) is open and accessible. For better security, we recommend you to open the port only to Nomad clients, and VMs for `machine` executors and remote docker engines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Finally, make sure that the TCP port 80 (i.e. HTTP) is open and accessible. For better security, we recommend that you only open the port to Nomad clients and VMs for `machine` executors and remote docker engines.
```

+
On AWS, for example, you will need to make sure that both Security Groups and the firewall at the OS level are configured correctly to accept connections from Nomad clients over HTTP.

=== Set up a secure pull through cache registry (HTTPS proxy for Docker Hub)

> Under certain circumstances (especially when you are enabling https://docs.docker.com/develop/develop-images/build_enhancements/[BuildKit] on machine executors and remote docker engines), your pull through cache registry needs to accept connections over HTTPS. This is the instruction to setup a pull through cache that listens for HTTPS connections.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Under certain circumstances (especially when you are enabling https://docs.docker.com/develop/develop-images/build_enhancements/[BuildKit] on `machine` executors and remote Docker engines), your pull through cache registry needs to accept connections over HTTPS. These instructions cover setting up a pull through cache that listens for HTTPS connections.
```

> . *Set up a Docker Hub account* which will be used by the pull through cache registry to access Docker Hub.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. *Set up a Docker Hub account*, which will be used by the pull through cache registry to access Docker Hub.
```

> === Set up a secure pull through cache registry (HTTPS proxy for Docker Hub)

Author: ```suggestion
=== Set Up a Secure Pull Through Cache Registry (HTTPS Proxy for Docker Hub)
```

+

> TIP: Setting up a paid account can be a good option to ease the rate limiting further. See also: https://www.docker.com/pricing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TIP: Setting up a paid account can be a good option to ease the rate limiting further. See also: https://www.docker.com/pricing.
```

. *Set up an independent Linux server* that has Docker installed.
+
We set up this registry as an independent server (i.e. outside of CircleCI boxes) to avoid load on this cache registry affecting other CircleCI Server services.
+

> Note that **the sever needs to be accessible by its hostname**. Namely, you have to configure DNS accordingly so that the hostname (assume `your-mirror.example.com`) resolves to the IP address of the server correctly. Hereby we assume that the URL for the registry to setup is `https://your-mirror.example.com` (be aware that the URL scheme is `http**_s_**`, not `http`). The URL will be needed later to arm Nomad clients and the VM Service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: **the server needs to be accessible by its hostname**. Namely, you must configure DNS accordingly so that the hostname (assume `your-mirror.example.com`) resolves to the IP address of the server correctly. Hereby we assume that the URL for the registry we are setting up is `https://your-mirror.example.com` (be aware that the URL scheme is `http**_s_**`, not `http`). The URL will be needed later to arm Nomad clients and the VM Service.
```

. *Obtain a TLS certificate for `your-mirror.example.com`* and *put the certificate and the private key into `/root/tls`* of the server.
+

> Note that this document assumes that you are obtaining a certificate issued by a well-known CA, not a self-signed one. Use of self-signed certificates is NOT tested.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: this guide assumes you are obtaining a certificate issued by a well-known CA, not a self-signed certificate. Use of self-signed certificates has NOT been tested.
```

. Run the command below to *start the registry*.
+
[source,bash]
----
sudo docker run \
  -d \
  -p 443:5000 \
  --restart=always \
  --name=through-cache-secure \
  -v /root/tls:/data/tls \
  -e REGISTRY_PROXY_REMOTEURL="https://registry-1.docker.io" \
  -e REGISTRY_PROXY_USERNAME=DOCKER_HUB_USERNAME \
  -e REGISTRY_PROXY_PASSWORD=DOCKER_HUB_ACCESS_TOKEN \
  -e REGISTRY_HTTP_TLS_CERTIFICATE=/data/tls/fullchain.pem \
  -e REGISTRY_HTTP_TLS_KEY=/data/tls/privkey.pem \
  registry
----
+
NOTE:
+
.. Replace `DOCKER_HUB_USERNAME` and `DOCKER_HUB_ACCESS_TOKEN` with the username for the Docker Hub account and the access token you obtained through https://hub.docker.com/settings/security, respectively.
.. Replace `fullchain.pem` and `privkey.pem` with the filenames of your certificate and private key, respectively. *The certificate specified there must be correctly chained enough for tracing the certification path from the leaf to the root*.

> 

Reviewer: Could we move these up before the command snippet, just so they don't get missed? Can use a multiline note I think:
```
[NOTE]
====
Replace... content here
====
```

----

. Finally, *make sure that the TCP port 443 (i.e. HTTPS) is open and accessible*. For better security, we recommend you to open the port only to Nomad clients and VMs for `machine` executors and remote docker engines.
+
On AWS, for example, you will need to make sure that both Security Groups and the firewall at the OS level are configured correctly to accept connections from Nomad clients and VMs for `machine`/`setup_remote_docker` jobs over HTTPS.

> ==== Plan for renewal of TLS certificates

Reviewer: ```suggestion
==== Plan for Renewal of TLS Certificates
```

You will need to renew TLS certificates periodically. These are the steps required to renew certificates.

. Update the certificate and the private key in `/root/tls`.

. Run `docker restart through-cache-secure`.

Technically, this can be automated. For example, if you are using Let's Encrypt for your certificates, you can setup a cron task that executes `certbot renew` and the steps above.

> == Configure Nomad clients to use the pull through cache registry (run this for _each_ Nomad client)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Configure Nomad Clients to use the Pull Through Cache Registry (run for _each_ Nomad client)
```

Reviewer: Sorry! Just a bunch of changes to fix titles to use title case then good to go from my point of view :-D

+
NOTE: Replace `http://192.0.2.1.or.https.your-mirror.example.com` with the URL of your pull through cache registry accordingly.
+
[source,bash]
----
sudo bash -c 'cat <<< $(jq ".\"registry-mirrors\" = [\"http://192.0.2.1.or.https.your-mirror.example.com\"]" /etc/docker/daemon.json) > /etc/docker/daemon.json'
----

. *Reload Docker daemon* to apply the configuration.
+
`sudo systemctl restart docker.service`

> Now you should be able to see that Docker images from Docker Hub are downloaded through the cache registry. As a side effect, you should be able to see that private images for the user, which is configured for the cache registry, can be downloaded without explicit authentications.

Reviewer: The meaning of the side effect here isn't quite clear to me... what is meant by "the user"?

Author: I am referring situations like this:
Assume that `DOCKER_HUB_USERNAME` in the "Set up a pull through cache registry" section is `makotom`.
Without the proxy, a private Docker image `makotom/my-private-image` cannot be used for `docker` executors unless the `auth` block in the config.yml is configured correctly.
Then, once the proxy is configured correctly, `makotom/my-private-image` becomes available for `docker` executors, even without specifying `auth` block in the config.
In this example "the user" in the original sentence equals `makotom`.

Your suggestion on better wording is super appreciated 😹

+
[source,bash]
----
sudo docker run \
  -d \
  -p 80:5000 \
  --restart=always \
  --name=through-cache \
  -e REGISTRY_PROXY_REMOTEURL="https://registry-1.docker.io" \
  -e REGISTRY_PROXY_USERNAME=DOCKER_HUB_USERNAME \
  -e REGISTRY_PROXY_PASSWORD=DOCKER_HUB_ACCESS_TOKEN \
  registry
----

. Finally, make sure that the TCP port 80 (i.e. HTTP) is open and accessible. For better security, we recommend that you only open the port to Nomad clients and VMs for `machine` executors and remote docker engines.
+
On AWS, for example, you will need to make sure that both Security Groups and the firewall at the OS level are configured correctly to accept connections from Nomad clients over HTTP.

=== Set up a secure pull through cache registry (HTTPS proxy for Docker Hub)

Under certain circumstances (especially when you are enabling https://docs.docker.com/develop/develop-images/build_enhancements/[BuildKit] on `machine` executors and remote Docker engines), your pull through cache registry needs to accept connections over HTTPS. These instructions cover setting up a pull through cache that listens for HTTPS connections.

> . *Set up a Docker Hub account*, which will be used by the pull through cache registry to access Docker Hub.

Reviewer 2: Can we call out here as a warning that any account they auth with will be accessible without explicit auth within their Docker jobs? This could be a real security concern for some folks.

Author: Good call. Will work on Monday.

 It should relate to [this comment](https://github.com/circleci/circleci-docs/pull/4906#discussion_r518734407), and it sounds better to rephrase this part and then relocate it to somewhere eye-catching.

Author: Done.

@rosieyohannan @ryanwohara May I ask your double check on the portion I've edited? I've added another tens of lines of sentences, and it should be better to peer reviewed. 🙏

+
TIP: Setting up a paid account can be a good option to ease the rate limiting further. See also: https://www.docker.com/pricing.

. *Set up an independent Linux server* that has Docker installed.
+
We set up this registry as an independent server (i.e. outside of CircleCI boxes) to avoid load on this cache registry affecting other CircleCI Server services.
+
NOTE: *The server needs to be accessible by its hostname*. Namely, you must configure DNS accordingly so that the hostname (assume `your-mirror.example.com`) resolves to the IP address of the server correctly. In this guide we assume that the URL for the registry we are setting up is `https://your-mirror.example.com` (be aware that the URL scheme is `http**_s_**`, not `http`). The URL will be needed later to arm Nomad clients and the VM Service.

. *Obtain a TLS certificate for `your-mirror.example.com`* and *put the certificate and the private key into `/root/tls`* of the server.
+
NOTE: This guide assumes you are obtaining a certificate issued by a well-known CA, not a self-signed certificate. Use of self-signed certificates has NOT been tested.

. Run the command below to *start the registry*.
+
[NOTE]
====

> . Replace `DOCKER_HUB_USERNAME` and `DOCKER_HUB_ACCESS_TOKEN` with the username for the Docker Hub account and the access token you obtained through https://hub.docker.com/settings/security, respectively.
> . Replace `fullchain.pem` and `privkey.pem` with the filenames of your certificate and private key, respectively. *The certificate specified there must be correctly chained enough for tracing the certification path from the leaf to the root*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Replace `DOCKER_HUB_USERNAME` and `DOCKER_HUB_ACCESS_TOKEN` with the username for the Docker Hub account and the access token you obtained through https://hub.docker.com/settings/security, respectively.

Replace `fullchain.pem` and `privkey.pem` with the filenames of your certificate and private key, respectively. *The certificate specified there must be correctly chained enough for tracing the certification path from the leaf to the root*.
```

Reviewer: just pushed this minor formatting change, hope that's ok!

EOD
----

. *Restart VM Service* to apply the customization.
+
`sudo docker restart vm-service`

> == How to test your setup?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Testing your Setup
```

> === Use private images without explicit authentication

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Use Private Images without Explicit Authentication
```

If the Docker ID for the cache registry has a private image, the private image should be accessible without explicit end-user authentication.

Below is a sample config to test the access (assume that the cache registry uses Docker ID `yourmachineaccount`, and there is a private image `yourmachineaccount/private-image-with-docker-client`):

[source,yaml]
----
version: 2

jobs:
  remote-docker:
    docker:
      - image: yourmachineaccount/private-image-with-docker-client # A copy of library/docker
    steps:
      - setup_remote_docker
      - run: docker pull yourmachineaccount/private-image-with-docker-client

  machine:
    machine: true
    steps:
      - run: docker pull yourmachineaccount/private-image-with-docker-client

workflows:
  version: 2

  run:
    jobs:
      - remote-docker
      - machine
----

> === Check logs on the cache registry

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Check Logs on the Cache Registry
```

By running `sudo docker logs through-cache` (or `sudo docker logs through-cache-secure` if you have set up a secure registry) you can see log outputs from your cache registry. If it is operational, there should be messages that the registry is responding to the requests for manifests and blobs with HTTP status code `200`.

> == How to revert the setup?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Reverting the Setup
```

> === Disarm Nomad clients

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Disarm Nomad Clients
```

Follow the steps below on _each_ Nomad client.

. *Remove `registry-mirrors` option in `/etc/docker/daemon.json`* by running the command below.
+
[source,bash]
----
sudo bash -c 'cat <<< $(jq "del(.\"registry-mirrors\")" /etc/docker/daemon.json) > /etc/docker/daemon.json'
----

. Run `sudo systemctl restart docker.service` to apply the change.

=== Disarm VM Service

Follow the steps below on your services machine.

. *Void the `JAVA_OPTS` environment variable* by running the command below.
+
`echo 'unset JAVA_OPTS' | sudo tee -a /etc/circleconfig/vm-service/customizations`

. Run `sudo docker restart vm-service` to apply the change.

== Resources

> * https://docs.docker.com/registry/recipes/mirror/ (How to configure a pull through cache mirror)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* https://docs.docker.com/registry/recipes/mirror/[How to configure a pull through cache mirror]
```

> * https://hub.docker.com/_/registry (Official Docker Registry Docker image)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* https://hub.docker.com/_/registry[Official Docker Registry Docker image]
```

> * https://docs.docker.com/registry/configuration/ (How to configure official Docker Registry)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* https://docs.docker.com/registry/configuration/[How to configure official Docker Registry]
```
